doc/authentication.rst, before:

Authentication
==============

Authentication Plugins
----------------------

commissaire.authentication.httpbasicauth
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Enables `Basic Authentication <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication>`_
using a :ref:`specific configuration structure <json_users_example>`.


Arguments
`````````
======== ======== ======================================================
Name     Required Description
======== ======== ======================================================
filepath No       Path to the file holding the JSON content
users    No       Dictionary of users to directly load
======== ======== ======================================================

.. note::

   If no argument is provided the plugin will consult etcd for the JSON content.


Modifying Users
```````````````

By default this plugin will look at Etcd for user/hash combinations under
the ``/commissaire/config/httpbasicauthbyuserlist`` key.

commissaire can also use a local file for authentication using the same JSON
schema.

.. code-block:: javascript

   {
       "username(string)": {
           "hash": "bcrypthash(string)"
       }...
   }


Generating a hash
`````````````````
commctl has a built-in command for creating bcrypt hashes.

.. include:: examples/commctl_note.rst

.. code-block:: shell

  $ commctl create passhash
  Password:
  $2b$12$rq/RN.Y1WD0ZyKPpLJkFVOv3XdLxW5thJ3OEaRgaMMFCgzLzHjiJG
  $


.. _json_users_example:

Example
```````

.. literalinclude:: ../conf/users.json
   :language: json


Using Etcd
``````````

To put the configuration in Etcd set the ``/commissaire/config/httpbasicauthbyuserlist`` key with
valid JSON.

.. include:: examples/etcd_authentication_example.rst


commissaire.authentication.httpauthclientcert
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Arguments
`````````
==== ======== ======================================================
Name Required Description
==== ======== ======================================================
cn   No       Common name which must match on the client certificate
==== ======== ======================================================

Using an Authentication Plugin
------------------------------

The default authentication plugin uses a JSON schema in etcd to lookup users.
To change to another plugin use the ``--authentication-plugin`` switch. If the
plugin has required configuration options you may also need to use the
``--authentication-plugin-kwargs``.

.. code-block:: shell

   $ commissaire [...] \
   --authentication-plugin commissaire.authentication.httpbasicauth
   --authentication-plugin-kwargs "filepath=/path/to/users.json"

commissaire's configuration file can use an alternative syntax to specify
plugin configuration.  The following is equivalent to the command-line
example above.

.. code-block:: javascript

   {
       "authentication-plugin": {
           "name": "commissaire.authentication.httpbasicauth",
           "filepath": "/path/to/users.json"
       }
   }

Commit message:

auth: Added kubeauth authentication plugin.
This plugin forwards the Bearer token through to an OpenShift or
Kubernetes resource. If access is granted to that resource then access
is also granted to Commisaire.

doc/authentication.rst, after:

Authentication
==============

Authentication Plugins
----------------------

commissaire.authentication.httpbasicauth
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Enables `Basic Authentication <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication>`_
using a :ref:`specific configuration structure <json_users_example>`.


Arguments
`````````
======== ======== ======================================================
Name     Required Description
======== ======== ======================================================
filepath No       Path to the file holding the JSON content
users    No       Dictionary of users to directly load
======== ======== ======================================================

.. note::

   If no argument is provided the plugin will consult etcd for the JSON content.


Modifying Users
```````````````

By default this plugin will look at Etcd for user/hash combinations under
the ``/commissaire/config/httpbasicauthbyuserlist`` key.

commissaire can also use a local file for authentication using the same JSON
schema.

.. code-block:: javascript

   {
       "username(string)": {
           "hash": "bcrypthash(string)"
       }...
   }


Generating a hash
`````````````````
commctl has a built-in command for creating bcrypt hashes.

.. include:: examples/commctl_note.rst

.. code-block:: shell

  $ commctl create passhash
  Password:
  $2b$12$rq/RN.Y1WD0ZyKPpLJkFVOv3XdLxW5thJ3OEaRgaMMFCgzLzHjiJG
  $


.. _json_users_example:

Example
```````

.. literalinclude:: ../conf/users.json
   :language: json


Using Etcd
``````````

To put the configuration in Etcd set the ``/commissaire/config/httpbasicauthbyuserlist`` key with
valid JSON.

.. include:: examples/etcd_authentication_example.rst


commissaire.authentication.httpauthclientcert
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Arguments
`````````
==== ======== ======================================================
Name Required Description
==== ======== ======================================================
cn   No       Common name which must match on the client certificate
==== ======== ======================================================

commissaire.authentication.kubeauth
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Enables `Bearer Token Authentication <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6750#section-2.1>`_
which comes from Kubernetes.


Arguments
`````````
======== ======== =========================================================
Name     Required Description
======== ======== =========================================================
resource No       Kubernetes resource used to check authentication against.
======== ======== =========================================================

.. note::

   If resource is not provided it will default to ``/serviceaccounts``


Using an Authentication Plugin
------------------------------

The default authentication plugin uses a JSON schema in etcd to lookup users.
To change to another plugin use the ``--authentication-plugin`` switch. If the
plugin has required configuration options you may also need to use the
``--authentication-plugin-kwargs``.

.. code-block:: shell

   $ commissaire [...] \
   --authentication-plugin commissaire.authentication.httpbasicauth
   --authentication-plugin-kwargs "filepath=/path/to/users.json"

commissaire's configuration file can use an alternative syntax to specify
plugin configuration.  The following is equivalent to the command-line
example above.

.. code-block:: javascript

   {
       "authentication-plugin": {
           "name": "commissaire.authentication.httpbasicauth",
           "filepath": "/path/to/users.json"
       }
   }
