doc/gettingstarted.rst, before:

Getting Started
===============

.. _manual_installation:

Manual Installation
-------------------
To test out the current code you will need the following installed:

* Python2.7 or Python3.1+
* virtualenv
* etcd2 (running)
* OpenShift or Kubernetes Cluster (running)
* (Optional) docker (running)

Set up virtualenv
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: examples/setup_virtualenv.rst

(Optional): Run Unittests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you are running from the matest master it's a good idea to verify that all
the unittests run. From the repo root...

.. include:: examples/run_unittest_example.rst


Setup Overlay Network Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Flannel requires a configuration inside of etcd.

.. include:: examples/flannel_overlay_network_example.rst


(Optional): Put Configs in Etcd
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
commissaire will default back to the local files but using Etcd is where configuration should be stored.

.. include:: examples/etcd_authentication_example.rst

.. include:: examples/etcd_logging_example.rst


(Optional) Set The OpenShift or Kubernetes Access Method
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are two methods for accessing the container manager: Client Side Certificate and Bearer Token. Only one is needed when working with a secured Kubernetes installation.

(Recommended) Client Certificate
````````````````````````````````

To use a client certificate:

.. note:: There is no default for the client certificate!

.. include:: examples/etcd_set_kube_client_side_certificate.rst

Bearer Token
````````````

To use a Bearer token:

.. note:: There is no default for the bearer token!

.. include:: examples/etcd_set_kube_bearer_token.rst


(Optional): Build Docker Container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you want to run from Docker and would like to build the image for yourself run...

.. code-block:: shell

    docker build --tag commissaire .
    ...

Running the service
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Most of Commissaire's command-line options can be specified in a JSON
configuration file, by default ``/etc/commissaire/commissaire.conf`` or
as specified by the ``--config-file`` option.

.. note::

   Command-line options take precedence over the configuration file.

From Source
```````````
To launch the server from the repo root, with a configuration file such
as those given below:

.. include:: examples/run_from_source.rst

**Not So Secure Mode**

.. include:: examples/simple_config.rst

**More Secure Mode**

.. include:: examples/secure_config.rst


Via Docker
``````````
To run the image, place a ``commissaire.conf`` file in an empty directory
and then bind-mount the directory to ``/etc/commissaire`` in the container.

.. note::

   These commands assume you have put user configuration in etcd and are using
   the ``commissaire.authentication.httpbasicauth`` authentication plugin.

.. note::

   Make sure that your firewall allows access to the etcd and kubernetes hosts and ports!

**Not So Secure Mode**

.. include:: examples/run_via_docker.rst


**More Secure Mode**

.. include:: examples/run_via_docker_more_secure.rst


Adding a Cluster
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Verify that Commissaire is running as a container or in the virtual environment then execute...

.. include:: examples/create_cluster.rst

Adding a Host
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Verify that Commissaire is running as a container or in the virtual environment then execute...

.. include:: examples/create_host.rst

Commit message:

State etcd/kube switches are also used remotely.
This change notes the -e/-k switches specify the URI which is used
locally to connect to their respective services as well as being used on
the remote host nodes for accessing the services.

doc/gettingstarted.rst, after:

Getting Started
===============

.. _manual_installation:

Manual Installation
-------------------
To test out the current code you will need the following installed:

* Python2.7 or Python3.1+
* virtualenv
* etcd2 (running)
* OpenShift or Kubernetes Cluster (running)
* (Optional) docker (running)

Set up virtualenv
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: examples/setup_virtualenv.rst

(Optional): Run Unittests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you are running from the matest master it's a good idea to verify that all
the unittests run. From the repo root...

.. include:: examples/run_unittest_example.rst


Setup Overlay Network Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Flannel requires a configuration inside of etcd.

.. include:: examples/flannel_overlay_network_example.rst


(Optional): Put Configs in Etcd
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
commissaire will default back to the local files but using Etcd is where configuration should be stored.

.. include:: examples/etcd_authentication_example.rst

.. include:: examples/etcd_logging_example.rst


(Optional) Set The OpenShift or Kubernetes Access Method
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are two methods for accessing the container manager: Client Side Certificate and Bearer Token. Only one is needed when working with a secured Kubernetes installation.

(Recommended) Client Certificate
````````````````````````````````

To use a client certificate:

.. note:: There is no default for the client certificate!

.. include:: examples/etcd_set_kube_client_side_certificate.rst

Bearer Token
````````````

To use a Bearer token:

.. note:: There is no default for the bearer token!

.. include:: examples/etcd_set_kube_bearer_token.rst


(Optional): Build Docker Container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you want to run from Docker and would like to build the image for yourself run...

.. code-block:: shell

    docker build --tag commissaire .
    ...

Running the service
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Most of Commissaire's command-line options can be specified in a JSON
configuration file, by default ``/etc/commissaire/commissaire.conf`` or
as specified by the ``--config-file`` option.

.. note::

   Command-line options take precedence over the configuration file.

.. note::

   The URI you give for etcd and Kubernetes via the CLI will be fed into the
   configuration files on remote host nodes. Make sure to use the public IP of
   the etcd and Kubernetes hosts.

From Source
```````````
To launch the server from the repo root, with a configuration file such
as those given below:

.. include:: examples/run_from_source.rst

**Not So Secure Mode**

.. include:: examples/simple_config.rst

**More Secure Mode**

.. include:: examples/secure_config.rst


Via Docker
``````````
To run the image, place a ``commissaire.conf`` file in an empty directory
and then bind-mount the directory to ``/etc/commissaire`` in the container.

.. note::

   These commands assume you have put user configuration in etcd and are using
   the ``commissaire.authentication.httpbasicauth`` authentication plugin.

.. note::

   Make sure that your firewall allows access to the etcd and kubernetes hosts and ports!

**Not So Secure Mode**

.. include:: examples/run_via_docker.rst


**More Secure Mode**

.. include:: examples/run_via_docker_more_secure.rst


Adding a Cluster
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Verify that Commissaire is running as a container or in the virtual environment then execute...

.. include:: examples/create_cluster.rst

Adding a Host
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Verify that Commissaire is running as a container or in the virtual environment then execute...

.. include:: examples/create_host.rst
